

                              Concreteness Checks


If we do not distinguish between symbolic and concrete values in the program
under test, then we end up passing every computation to the solver, including
concrete ones. Since all parameters are known in the purely concrete case, the
solver will just repeat the computation (most likely in a less efficient way)
and conclude that there is no way to change its outcome. We can avoid such
wasted effort by only passing symbolic computations to the solver.

There are two stages at which data can be identified as concrete:
1. At compile time, if a value is known to be a constant we can conclude that it
   will always be concrete at run time.
2. At run time, a value that is not a constant may still turn out to be
   concrete. For example, data read from memory can be symbolic or concrete.

If we detect in the compiler pass that a value is a compile-time constant (case
1 above), we do not emit code for symbolic handling at all. However, for any
other type of data we need to generate code that handles the case of it being
symbolic at run time. Concretely (no pun intended), we mark concrete values at
run time by setting its corresponding symbolic expression in shadow memory to
null. This makes it very cheap to check concreteness during execution: just run
a null check on the symbolic expression.

The code that we inject into the program under test performs concreteness checks
on the arguments of each instruction. For example, when the program adds two
values, the generated code performs the addition and additionally represents it
symbolically according to the concreteness of the two addends. There are
multiple cases to distinguish:
1. If all arguments of a computation are concrete, we can skip symbolic
   processing altogether and just set the result expression to null, indicating
   that the result is a concrete value.
2. If at least one argument is symbolic, we need to generate an expression
   representing the result. Therefore, we generate expressions for all arguments
   (since the concrete arguments will have null expressions) and call into the
   run-time support library to produce an expression according to the performed
   computation. There are several opportunities for optimization, e.g., when
   the computation only has a single argument that is not a compile-time
   constant we do not need to check it for concreteness again.

It is important to note that these checks cannot be performed by the compiler
because the concreteness of non-constant data is not known at compile time.
Instead, the compiler emits code that performs the required checks at run time
and acts accordingly.
